good morning everybody and welcome I'm
Eric Schadt scre editor-at-large here at
Bloomberg I have a focus on Wall Street
and global investing and on behalf of
Bloomberg I'm delighted you could join
us this morning for the very first in
our series of invest talks what surely
will be an insightful conversation with
Ray Dalio of Bridgewater associates
before we get started a few housekeeping
items it's normal for these kinds of
things although we too are experimenting
with virtual conversations if you
experience any issues with your audio or
video during our broadcast just refresh
your browser and that should take care
of everything you're going to be able to
submit some questions and I encourage
you to engage we'll be fielding these
questions throughout the interview and
while I won't be able to get to all of
you I most certainly will do my best to
submit a question please type it into
the Q&A box below the slide window and
then click the submit button one
additional thing when you do submit a
question please also include your
geographic location whether it's New
York London Singapore Dallas it doesn't
matter just throw it in there I'm not
going to name you but I'd love to know
where you're watching from I'm also
going to be polling you a few times over
the course of this event you're going to
see the polling questions pop up on your
screen as we're talking please take a
moment to register your responses we are
of course on twitter at hashtag
bloomberg invest so please do engage
with us there as well
with that let's welcome Ray Dalio
everybody he is the founder of
Bridgewater associates he's a deep
thinker
he's the author of the best-selling book
principles Ray welcome great to see you
thank you for joining us great to be
here thank you for holes that I
mentioned Ray this is a question for our
audience not for you and here it is
everybody when do you expect normal and
I'm saying normal in quotation marks
normal business conditions to return in
your industry as you can see here we've
got four responses third quarter of 2020
fourth quarter of 2020 some
I'm in 2021 and the latter is later than
anybody thinks so please register those
responses and we'll see when we've heard
from enough of you what it all looks
like ray I think that's a convenient
segue into our conversation and I'd like
to begin by asking you this question or
at least asking this of you tell us if
you would about the work you and your
colleagues at Bridgewater have been
doing trying to understand this pandemic
and share with us some of the
conclusions you've reached about its
impact on the economy well I think I
think you know that I believe basically
almost everything has happened before
you know one of the great things about
getting old and reading history as you
see these things happen over and over
again so this is an economic downturn
it's caused by the pandemic and you know
we can even go study pandemics and what
they're looking like which we've now
done we wish we had done that before but
so there's this economic downturn and
the way it works is basically that
everybody has a certain amount of income
every individual every company every
country has a certain amount of income a
certain amount of expenses and a certain
amount of savings balance sheet and so
this has been a hit financially to
income and it's been a hit to balance
sheets assets and then those that so
think of those as holes there's been a
neck hole in income and a hole in
balance sheets and then there's the
capacity of central banks and
governments to fill in those holes so
there's a financial world and then that
financial world governments produce
money and credit out of thin air
basically and they can fill in those
holes and so this is a moment which is
very analogous to announcements that
have happened
in the past March
didn't Roosevelt announced that there
would be the printing of money and
credit and there would be a severing of
the relationship with gold at the time
so that they could print money and
credit and create credit and to fill in
those holes and that was the exact
bottom of the economy in 1933 March of
1933 the exact bottom of the markets the
exact bottom of the economy similar
things have happened throughout history
we can remember that when 2008 financial
crisis the bottom occurred when the
federal government Congress and the
President created a program to save the
banks and to fill in that hole with
money and credit but it's also produced
by the Federal Reserve to go by
financial transactions and make those
purchases and that created that bottom
because they filling in the holes and
you could take that one Mario Draghi um
said he'll do whatever he takes and then
the European Central Bank
but produce money and credit and filled
in the holes and so the issue is really
at those moments there are the filling
in the holes and so there are two
dimensions to that you can't row you
can't raise production you can't raise
real wealth by producing money and
credit you could just fill in the debt
holes and you can that process so we're
now in a process of those holes being
filled in and it's very important to
look at what holes exist and what
they'll be filled in with and what I
mean by that is Americans have holes in
different ways different Americans will
have it but and what will be produced
we're very lucky because we have the
world's central bank so think about it
this way 70% of the world's transactions
and savings and most most everything is
in dollars and so they buy they sell and
they save mostly in dollars and because
the Federal Reserve produces that money
in credit it will target it Americans
and they'll work out exactly what Oh
we'll fill in and and so on but we're in
a sense the world's money the world's
credit is that which is produced by our
central bank but that money in credit
really won't go much farther beyond
those Americans and we'll need to talk
about what that means for Americans but
it won't go much farther and then
there's a European Central Bank which is
not nearly as powerful so there's all of
that going on I'm probably going on to
all but it's filling in the hole I was
just gonna say a thing they'll be as to
who before we get into some of that some
of deeper into those holes and deeper
into the programs that the Federal
Reserve and the government have
undertaken to try to fill them in can
you give us a sense Rea of two things
first of all how big is the hole and how
big a hole are we talking about how long
is that hole going to last just to give
you an idea of what the audience thinks
our viewers don't think they're going to
be back that their businesses are going
to be back to normal conditions until
sometime in 2021
which is probably about a year from now
so give us a sense of how long you think
it's going to take and how big a hole
we're gonna have to fill well the the
holes to incomes in the United States we
estimate somewhere in the vicinity of
five trillion dollars and the holes in
the in the world economy
is probably somewhere in the vicinity of
20 trillion dollars and we look at
particularly who has what holes and then
how they'll be filled so the economy as
a result of this so the real economy
which is good services production and
all of that
in the world over the next year we'll
probably have a fall of maybe four or
five percent which is a bigger fool this
is a bigger event than the 2008
financial crisis and it's most
comparable to the nineteen thirty to
forty five period of time in terms of
you know the size of the hole
rates and those types of impact and then
we'll adapt the one of the great things
about the greatest force is in humanity
and the greatest force in productivity
is the capacity of humans to adapt and
change the way they're doing things and
we're doing that right now and so I'm
pretty confident that the inventiveness
the adaptation and will bring us to a
new way of operating and let's say if
you take that decline that'll be a peak
to trough decline of somewhere in that
magnitude that will get get past that
but it'll be in a total new world order
the world won't resemble the world that
were used to it's going to change in
various ways so it's it's it's a big
hole it's not a unsustainable hole
because the capacity of producing money
and credit is unlimited it means that we
have to look at what is the value of
money and credit okay that new world
what is the value of money and credit
what is a store hold of wealth what okay
you just can't produce it without it
having its effect on its value and so
that when we talk about production we'll
adapt and we'll get past it but how
wealth will change will be very very big
and different that's it that's I'm gonna
come back to that in just a moment and I
keep saying I'm gonna come back to the
things you're mentioning but I promise I
will ray in your opinion is what we've
seen thus far in the way of fiscal
stimulus from the federal government and
monetary stimulus from the Federal
Reserve appropriate are both of those
organs of the US government if you will
doing what they should be doing and if
they're not doing quite enough yet what
else should they be doing yes in my
reaction there's you know there's no
choice yeah it's in like in the 2008
financial crisis you're faced with the
choice do you want those banks to exist
in the future
or you want to get rid of those bags and
they they may have gone broke and they
may not have had enough savings and they
may have done even things that they
should bear the consequences of but you
want to save the backs and so this is a
crisis that's similar except it goes way
beyond the banks so when you start to
think who do you want to save you have
to think about do you provide them with
income and how do you how much do you do
deal with their balance sheet and if you
don't do that the consequences are
enormous so the reaction needed to be of
the sort we have to think about the
consequences though of producing all
that money in credit where does it come
from and what does it mean we'll turn
that to that in a minute but it's just
like no rate depression to do that and
you will need to do more and we will
argue over what we should do and who
gets what and that'll be our big
discussion but yes there has to be more
money and credit and you have to operate
in a way where it you save important
things and that you only impose a
certain amount of suffering on certain
people that they can bear otherwise
you'll have a revolution and you won't
have productivity ray can we talk about
some of those consequences I think
that's a critical part of this
conversation when you when you say the
word consequences are you thinking about
economic consequences like inflation for
example a product perhaps of all the
liquidity that's being generated by the
government are you thinking about the
impact that it has on the Treasury bond
market are you thinking about the impact
that it has may be on the foreign
exchange market are you thinking about
those things are you thinking more
broadly tell me of course it's my
responsibility to think about all of
those things and that's my passion since
I was a kid and I'm thinking about all
those things and then you also have to
bring in the elements of of wealth gaps
in and and and politics you the world
does not operate just without
consideration to how wealth is
distributed so I'm thinking for example
that when we look ahead the world is
going to be very different
like when we think about how you'll pay
for it okay
will there be a reversal of the
corporate tax cut for example the
paradigm that we were in since about
2008 until it ended with the downturn
was one in which just mechanistically
certain things happened that supported
markets and they included things that
probably are not repeatable for example
when you had a corporate tax cut the
decline in corporate tax rates benefited
stocks when you had interest rates go
down the effect of lowering that
interest rate caused all asset prices to
rise because they all compete and so
that causes a price earnings expansion
but we won't have in the future interest
rates go down in the same way you had
expansion in profits and wealth assets
prices going up for the purchase of
those and that benefited those with
assets more than those without assets
and that created a wider wealth gap so
you had low levels of interest rates
cause corporations to borrow and to buy
back stocks and to buy other
corporations because the returns on
equities were greater than the cost of
funding and that supported prices and
that created a certain cash flow you're
not going to have that so as we come
into the new paradigm we have to realize
that even at you know how is capitalism
how will it mechanically work what does
it mean for redistribution of wealth all
of those questions are part of the same
series of questions you asked so when I
think about foreign exchange when I
think about each of the markets I have
to look at it in that holistic way to
figure that out and then I think about
that globally you just can't think about
it as one thing the United States's
conditions are different from Europe's
and a difference from China and
different from other countries and those
differences are important so I have to
think about all that yes now I was just
going to say could you give us a sense
so you've you've established some really
valuable context but I want to try and
get a better sense of how you think it's
gonna play out
so things are not going to be the same
what is going to happen with inflation
in the period after the financial crisis
we saw this monetary levitation we saw
asset prices rise as you pointed out we
saw you know a widening of the wealth
gap if you will the rich getting richer
we did see the buybacks that you talked
about the amount of leverage that was
built into the corporate economy how
will that be different are we gonna have
more inflation will asset prices rise
the way they did before is to the point
that you just made a moment ago will the
the Fed in its asset purchase program be
able to manage interest rates and and
yields more importantly market yields
the way that it's been able to up until
recently well you gave me a bunch of
questions there so I'll take him a bit
by bet let's start with the inflation
component there's inflation and goods
and services and then there's the value
of money and inflation and certain
assets I think the period that we're
going through right now is most
analogous to the 1930 to 1945 period in
many many many ways and so in that
period what you had is deflation Airy
pressures much the same way as we have
deflationary I mean think about a you
know is the supply demand of goods and
services such that it's tight and well
in other words were short of the goods
and services and so prices are high and
that's one type of supply to man
inflation then there's monetary
inflation and so like in the 1930s
period when you had you had deflation of
goods and services and you had inflation
because of financial assets and other
things because they produced it and so
you saw a series of currency declines so
you saw one country after another
devalue its currency in relationship to
other countries currencies and in
relationship to gold which was then
considered the money and so there were
those two valuations very similar
another period of time that seems very
similar to me is the 1980 to 1990 period
because what happened then is the world
had a lot of debt and the money was
tight and then what happened is they
there was a debt crisis and it
differentiated some countries from other
countries so the emerging countries that
owed a lot of debt and also didn't have
the best benefit of the money that was
coming out of the Federal Reserve had a
crisis from 1980 to 1991 when they put
the brady bonds in and and about at the
same time the United States was going
through a reef reflation period in which
assets reef laid it but inflation rates
fell globally so it's important to
distinguish what we mean by inflation
this is not a supply demand kind of
global supply demand we're going to be
short of things we're going to bit up
its price kind of inflation we have to
deal with the monetary inflation and I
think in the early stages of this you're
going to see it reflected in asset
prices so you see it reflected to some
extent in gold and to some extent in to
stocks and other things I can get into
what I think will be the sort of the
beneficiaries of that it'll be a
different kind of world it'll be
difficult to it it'll be a very
selective world
- what what we'll do well but pay
attention to the value of money what is
a store hold of wealth no don't just
look at goods and services because I
think when we look at an economy the way
we normally do we just think it's all a
function of goods services stocks and
bonds and so on and we may not pay
enough attention to the value of money I
think we'll be in an environment where
that'll be a very important issue ray
I'm just gonna take this opportunity to
ask the second polling question of our
audience let's bring it up and here it
is what quarter will the US economy
return to positive growth will it be the
third quarter of 2020 the fourth quarter
of 2020 sometime in 2021 or once again
later than anybody thinks I'm going to
give the audience time to think about
that for a moment and and to to register
their responses ray I'm gonna take this
opportunity as well to weave in a
question from our live audience I can't
tell you where it's coming from but but
it seems relevant given what you were
just saying is it surprising for you ray
to see global equity markets enter what
amounts to a new bull market while we're
still in the middle of one of the worst
health economic and financial crises in
modern history no not at all I mean it
just just like you can go back to the
dates of announced reflation
you have a whole the economy follows
what this is the important thing even
when you're answered you're asking the
question of others when will it fill in
you have to understand the financial
part of it what it means from incomes
and balance sheets and so what I'm
saying is let me give you know I can
give you the dates
[Music]
so it was the date that the bottom when
the Federal Reserve and the Treasury in
2008 announced its program to produce
enough money and credit to buy financial
assets that we that we entered the new
paradigm it was the date of Mary when it
helped you for just just a moment
I I'm interrupting your rate just to
make one point that I think people are
trying to wrestle with right now is they
listen to your answers you're absolutely
right that the Fed and the government
for that matter at least in this country
and then elsewhere in Europe you know
took action in 2008 and clearly the
federal government took action and the
Fed took action back during the Great
Depression but there's often a lag
between the moment they fire the bazooka
and the moment that we so to speak hit
bottom the bazooka has been fired a
number of times over the past few weeks
we don't know whether we've seen the
bottom whether it's the economic bottom
probably not yet or the financial market
bottom how do you think about that I I
think you're not adequately
distinguishing economic activity and
stock prices and financial market
considerations I learned this early in
life it was so funny if when I was a kid
I was a you know invested it a kid and I
would see this the economy gets stronger
and stronger and stronger and I would
see the markets go down down down and
then I would see the economy get weaker
and weaker and weaker and then I would
see them go up up up based on what the
amount of money and credit is so you it
like like it goes when it gets stronger
and stronger and let's say money becomes
tighter and tighter and central banks
become tighter and tighter that has an
effect on the present value of all cash
flows and so on and that's more
important and so the real economy lags
the financial economy so if we're
looking at that we first have to start
off with the financial economy and then
we have to say where does the money and
credit flow and you have to follow those
flows I mean down at a detail level so
then that's what we try to do okay so
money and credit is going to buy central
but they'll buy what do they buy
okay they will buy first investment
great starts with Treasury then they buy
investment great then they buy junk
bonds okay what is their objective who
is going to get the money and credit
what will that mean for the cost of
funds and then you have to follow that
money and credit through I think just to
answer your question I'm saying it's a
money and credit question at the same
time I can't tell you how much this I
can give you my thoughts about what what
will happen in terms of it passing
through if I get down to the granular I
think that what'll happen is it'll be a
big shift in wealth it'll be a big shift
in where things go and you know so when
I look at that I think it's a mistake to
look at the economy as a whole like you
know everybody saying the economy as a
whole you know there's this economy and
you know it goes up and down based on
what they do but it's not gonna be like
that it's gonna be more like this that
they're going to change the nature of
that mix in a very important way and
that mix is going to change so while we
see let's say a 3 or 4 or 5 percent
decline and then we think about what are
our impediments to bring economic
activity up we'll get past those
impediments and we'll bring economic
activity up ok
but the balance sheet damage the income
damage and who is going to get what in
that new economy are the most important
things so the follow originally let me
get the 1971 move by by President Nixon
okay to devalue that are imprinted money
um did not help the stock market much
stock market did not perform well no
gold it all a lot went into gold a lot
went into inflation hedge assets it
created an era that the night that move
in August 15 1971 created the 70s okay
and because of the way that money flowed
so it so when you ask of stocks I can't
tell you how much stocks I can't tell
you help what other assets as we're
working that through I have my theories
and I can tell you but the nature of
that is it's a reflation in which the
value of money will go down and the
value of other things that are of a
certain nature certain types of stocks
certain types of other financial assets
in certain places in the world which we
can delve into if you want will be the
big beneficiaries and the world order
will change in an important way based on
who those beneficiaries are just like
what happened after post 1971 just like
what happened after post 1933 one well
let's do that now let's do that share
with us your theories who are the
beneficiaries going to be and how is
that going to be reflected in the things
that we see like prices prices of assets
and prices of goods i believed that as
we distinguish we can do that by
countries and parts of the world and we
could do that by asset types and so on i
believe that when you look at bonds and
debt a bond is a promise to the receive
currency so you have when you're holding
a bond that gives you no interest rate
or a negative interest rate and they're
producing a lot of currency and you're
going to receive that why would you hold
that bond okay and and and where is that
bond and who owns that bond
okay so this period like the 19 30 to 45
period is a period in which i think
you'd be pretty crazy throwing bonds
okay cuz because what is a debt at that
in a fiat currency is a promise to
receive currency and is them pretty
clear they're good
make a lot of currency so I think that
that changes the appeal of bonds wipe
why in the world would you all the bots
and that has a big effect so when you
start to think about how much wealth is
in bonds and where is that wealth going
to go and how is that going to work and
how are they going to control it you
know I have real thoughts about that so
what is a good store hold of wealth when
we're all holding all of these debt
assets and how will that play out
that'll be an important consideration
another and that has to do with store
hold of wealth and so on when I think of
store hold of wealth I think what are
the stable store hold the wealth in the
form of stocks and other kinds of debt I
want those that have strong balance
sheets stable incomes and so on so that
you're basically having those assets
that will perform well in any kind of an
environment and I'll look at them what
based on how cheap or expensive they are
and when I think of the world I divide
the world in two different locations as
I say I think that this picture is very
much like the 1980 to 90 period when
we're flooding the it with financial
assets excuse me with money and credit
but they're not getting to a number of
emerging countries so when I look at the
distribution of wealth in terms of their
balance sheets like every individual I
look at what is their income what is
their expenses and what is their savings
and when we go through that exercise I
you know I then it changes I don't want
to be in places that don't have good
ones and then I look at civil behavior
on how a people with each other is there
going to be a fight and will that fight
will people be orderly will we work it
out and then what will be the changes in
tax rules you know taxation will
corporate taxes come back in certain
ways what will the changes because we're
not going to deal with that equally so
I'm looking at all of that
to create a picture of differentiation I
see a very differentiated world and when
we talk about the economy coming back
hmm I think you have to realize what big
changes are that are behind that that
can't be Jake's let's say for example
self-sufficiency I think we're going to
produce different things and and we'll
be self-sufficient we operated in a
world where we were globally connected
and whoever was most efficient would get
it and we were all we would just go get
it wherever it was most efficiently
produced that world won't happen again
so you're going to come to a world where
the ill originated it you know produce
it at home and you'll start to think
about what do you need and I imagine
that we're going to be rebuilding our
basics healthcare systems how much
savings are we going to have put into
rebuilding some of those basics like
basics of hospital what's our storage
for the next time we have the next
epidemic and then there'll be other
things climate change you know this is
the act of nature that hit us over the
head the virus but there's other
evolutionary costs that are going to
come in the form of climate change and
those types of things all of those
things are important to imagine in
imagining the new world order I think so
you and I have talked in the past ray
about your concerns over populism your
concerns about inequality your concerns
about capitalism and some of the flaws
that you had observed or believed
existed in the system that we still have
and and now you've raised the question
as to whether there's going to be a
fight a fight over wealth is there going
to be a fight over wealth let's just
talk about it in terms of this country
what is going to happen in that sense is
there going to be a battle over tax
rates and redistribution give me a sense
of what you have been thinking and what
you anticipate well
again I'm just a mechanic who's tries to
be a practical guy and so when I answer
these questions I don't answer them
ideologically I'm just trying to answer
them mechanistically so as as far as
what I believe in what I've written I
wrote a piece which how and why
capitalism needs to be reformed and I'm
a capitalist so it sometimes you get
thrown in as just a generalization and
it before this it struck me that if we
have a downturn and we don't have much
of an effective monetary policy we're
we're a particularly risky position and
it's fundamentally not good that we
don't have this that we have such a
problem in terms of the outcomes it
would Becca mystically for history when
you have people who share a budget or
share wealth and you have a large wealth
gap and hmm so when you have a large
wealth gap and there's an economic
downturn there's a high risk over
fighting over wealth and that's just
history we see that happen over and over
again so most probably there's a
question of whether we'll do that well
or whether we don't won't do that well
and I can give historico examples of
doing it well and not doing it well but
mostly it's a risky thing that people
don't do well and then in addition it
struck me that the system is not
producing the desired outcomes in
totality because if you know what is the
desired outcome when I was growing up
okay we created a new world order in
1945 1945 and the world war with 1945 we
created a new dollar based monetary
system 1945 would began a new world
order and we had the United Nations in
New York and we had the World Bank and
the IMF in Washington because it was the
American and enterprise and then we had
80% of the world's gold and we began a
process
now we're heavily in debt and we are at
those kinds of limits and so on how are
we going to restructure that world order
so when I look at it I think in terms of
your answer it depends very much on how
we are together and will we will we
bring the country together you know like
togetherness and being behind a common
mission like and what is that common
mission I believe what is the American
dream
do we know what the American Dream is or
do we each have our individual dreams
like I want to get richer and I want to
do something else and and so the up to
me when I was growing up the American
Dream meant something like equal
opportunity I was very lucky to be
raised by two pounds my dad was a jazz
musician a modest income but I was able
to go to to parents who loved me and and
then I was able to go to a public school
and I got a good public education and
then I was able to go into a world of
equal opportunity and it's those kinds
of fundamental things so we'll need an
American dream we'll need to do it
together and we need to do it
harmoniously with those who are
competitors in the world like China if
we're going to do this well and so I
think we're at a juncture of deciding
we're in a fork in a road that you will
find out in fairly quickly in the next
year or two about whether we're going to
do this in a harmonious bipartisan way
that we can get through our disagreement
or not and everything depends on that
there's enough wealth in the world and
enough opportunity and still the
inventiveness so what we have to do it's
an engineering exercise what we have to
do is engineer intelligently how to
increase the size of the pie so
productivity increases and you increase
the size of the pie and then also divide
it well
so we have not only divide the wealth
well but divide the productivity
opportunities well so like there's a
investing in education is a great thing
but in any case yes how we are going to
be with each other when we're creating
this new world order is going to be the
most important thing up rate I'd like to
turn our attention to some of the
questions from the audience many of them
are very similar which gives you a very
clear sense that there are a number of
specific things on the minds of people
who are out there and and more
importantly the people who are listening
to you right now and I'm going to try
and summarize these questions because
you know they are a number of them dance
around the same issue some critics say
that this is specifically about the fed
programs race some critics say it's
wrong for the Fed to be in the market
buying corporate bonds buying investment
grade bonds and buying junk bonds as
opposed to what they used to do which
was Treasuries and agencies because it's
picking winners and losers in the real
economy what do you think I think
everything is a matter of weighing the
pros and the cons and what happens over
a long period of time is that whoever
steps into the job inherits that which
happened before them and then they deal
with that thing in the best possible way
in over a long period of time that's bad
because let's say a government official
you become a governor of a state and
what happens is there's an incentive to
spend money and borrow money because at
that time if you borrow money and spend
money people look at how much you're
spending and you pre can produce a a
prosperity on borrowed money and then
you leave your term and then the person
next inherits what they have and so when
you're head of the Federal Reserve
when you step in to the existing job you
have an overly indebted economy that is
and you have a situation where if you
just bought government bonds in the
traditional way
at which it isn't of itself a problem in
a sense and you just bought that then
you have to allow the other parts of the
economy to go broke and then when
thinking about that um you have to then
say what do you do with that and and you
have to do it quick and you have to do
it
imprecisely and so the choice that you
face is that those country companies
which were investment grade all of a
sudden because of the deteriorations and
their incomes and their balance sheets
have become junk and so all of them be a
lot of you know good quality at one
level consider good quality becomes junk
and so do you say I'm not going to
provide that money to those it's just a
choice you have that choice okay and you
have to think about the consequences of
the choice so yes it's correct that they
history is shown that they that central
banks have bought stocks central banks
have done anything they will do
practically anything and by practically
anything in order to save the system so
you ask what's just systemically
important and they'll probably buy it
and therefore you won't have a regular
market and then you as an investor get
to make the choice of what do you own
you have that freedom so what are you
own what are you gonna own you have that
freedom right here's a question for you
about the way you think about the
company you founded because it's a
question that pretty much everybody who
has any business anywhere in the world
is thinking about I want to know how
you're wrestling with the debate over
reopening the economy how will you
decide when employees come back to
Bridgewater
and what impact is working from home
having on a culture like yours right a
unique company culture a culture of
radical transparency how are you
wrestling with those questions and how
do you think it'll look in the in the
months and even years ahead well we've
been I don't know lucky or whatever it
is what we've done years and years ago
was to assume that for one reason or
another could be a hurricane knocks
everything out or it could be any reason
that we would have to be able to operate
digitally and so on and and we we've
done that we've operated this way
and it made it in our normal practices
to be able to operate this way and so
when there was the beginning of the
virus I mean it pretty much we knew what
it would look like I'm we studied it in
the past because it happening in China
then also gave us a good sense and we
studied what what it was like and then
so we quickly went operating in this way
and it's it there are some differences
in it but the way we're operating is
fine yeah it you know it it's good and
like human evolution it's all a matter
of knowing how to adapt and there'll be
new inventions and and humanity you know
it'll be zoom is very popular and now
online education will be very popular
and it'll prove and I'm sure man will
adapt and so when we look about let's
say the coming coming back we're going
to deal with the health case very
seriously is there's a lot of silent
transmission and we're going to be very
conservative in terms of that we're
coming back because on this way of
operating works fine and and so it will
be conservative and when we're coming
back and we also believe that you know
studying pandemics
um these come in waves so um you know
this is not like just one wave like it's
going to be gone it'll be really more a
question of human inventiveness in terms
of coming up with testing processes and
you know vaccines still look quite a way
out there but testing processes and
various protocols and changes and
protocols and and I'm sure that we'll
find good ways of adapting to it as as
the world will and so we'll see but
we'll be conservative in coming back and
with the way we're operating is you know
just fine
we're with that I want to thank you very
much for joining us today
ladies and gentlemen Ray Dalio and thank
you to our audience for tuning in this
is the first in a series we call invest
talks delighted to have Ray as our first
guest folks we'd also love to have your
feedback about this event an exit survey
is going to appear on your screen
shortly you can also find a replay of
this conversation with Ray Dalio by
following the very stream registration
link you started with today stay tuned
for more interviews in this invest awk
series you can follow us at Bloomberg
live on Twitter and LinkedIn for updates
please also be sure to follow our
ongoing financial and markets coverage
on twitter at business is Bloomberg's
handle and of course on Bloomberg comm
if you haven't already done so please
consider subscribing to Bloomberg at
Bloomberg comm slash subscriptions I'm
Eric Schadt scre here in New York want
to thank you all very much for joining
us today we'll see you at our next
conversation here on invest talks